All right guys so in this video we're going to look at a pseudo selector or pseudo class called End
Child.
So I'm going to go ahead and our CSA sandbox to create a new file called Zero to underscore and underscore
child Dot.
Each team l I'm gonna change this.
This targeted selectors just gonna do 0 1 just to stay consistent here.
All right.
So in the end in the child file let's go ahead and generate our head and body tags say and child and
we want our style tags.
Now as far as the H team l what I'm going to do is just have a U L and I want about 20 list items.
So I'm going to say ally.
And he's Emmet here and the content will be item and then an incremental number and I'm going to say
time's 20 and then hit enter.
OK so we'll go ahead and open this up we'll save it open with live server.
Now I'm going to add some base styling for the list item.
So I just want to add some padding.
We'll say point to five REM and margin.
Pardon.
Zero point to five REM.
And let's just take away the bullet items with list style.
None.
All right.
Now we've seen first child and last child.
So I'm just going to refresh your memory if you forget what these do basically we can select the first
and last element and it doesn't have to be a list I do I'm just using list items that could be divs
it could be whatever any element at all.
But we're going to say ally and then the pseudo selector syntax is a colon.
So we want to say first child and let's say background.
Let's just do background rattle.
Just use color names here.
So that selects the first one and if we want the last one copy that and we'll just do last child and
save.
Now the last one is red.
But what about all of these.
You know what if we want to choose the fourth one or every every second one every even one every odd
one for that we can use any child and anything is basically like kind of like a placeholder.
So let's get let's say position three.
So to do that we can say list item and we're gonna say n dash child and we're just going to pass in
three.
Okay.
And then I'm going to say background and let's do a different color we'll do purple and save.
And notice that the third one down is is purple.
OK.
So what if we wanted to do every three K not just the third one but every third one.
We want to do so in that case it's a every three.
So we could say andthe child and we can say three and plus zero.
This is basically the formula that that we're gonna use here and let's say background and we'll do orange
I save that I notice that every third one is orange and it replace the the this one here position three
because it's further down.
So it just kind of overrode.
If I put important here and save then that's going to overwrite that.
Now this formula that we passed in here is the counter.
So this is the counter and then zero this is the offset K because we can offset.
We can start it wherever we want in this case were starting at zero and as a shortcut we can just do
three n.
So I save that we're going to get the same result.
Now let's say that I want to do every three but I wanted to start after the seventh item here.
So let's put a comment in here we'll say every 3 after 7.
So to do that we can put an end to child and then pass in 3 N and we want to do plus 7 which is our
offset.
Okay.
And then I'll do background yellow and we'll save that.
And notice that the yellow starts here.
Okay.
So this 7 this is the offset.
We're basically gonna just we're not going to start it until we hit that seventh item and then we're
going to do every three.
Now a more common thing you're probably going to do is even an odd.
So let's say every odd so we could do ally and child and we could pass in odd and let's do background.
We'll do a light gray and save.
And now every odd item here is going to be light gray.
Now it's probably probably it's probably pretty obvious that we can do even as well so let's do that.
Let's do even and we'll change this to let's do a shade darker shade lighter actually and save.
And now every even is the.
Like this.
This DDD light gray.
All right.
So any child can be pretty handy.
I remember before and the child was actually a thing we had to use javascript to dynamically select
every other element there was it was just a pain in the neck guys if you're learning each team Allen
CSX now you've missed a lot of just giant pains in the asses because things weren't I mean you know
these selectors weren't around even like border radius wasn't around to do things like even place holders
in our forms and our input forms we didn't have the place holder attribute before each team all five.
So we would have to use javascript to put to have a value in but then had a click event.
So when we clicked in the value went away which was just a giant pain in the neck.
So you guys are lucky those of you that are learning this now that you don't have to go through that
stuff and then browser compatibility is a whole new issue.
All right.
So that's that's the basis of.
And the child in the next video we're going to look at the before and after pseudo selector and look
at some practical uses for the.
For that.